update: better intro (#281)
libp2p/docs: content/concepts/introduction/overview.md

> no point of contact, were closed source, deprecated, lacked specifications, had unfriendly APIs,
> or were tightly coupled with specific use cases and not upgradeable. As a result, developers often
> had to reinvent the wheel each time they needed P2P protocols, rather than being able to reuse
> existing solutions.

{{< alert icon="" context="info">}}
libp2p was designed to address the limitations of traditional P2P networking approaches and these
existing network models, with the goal of enabling the distributed web.
{{< /alert >}}

## Why libp2p?

There are several reasons to consider using libp2p as a networking layer to create a robust P2P application:

- **Modularlity**: libp2p is designed to be modular, allowing developers to mix and match different components
  to meet the needs of their particular application. This makes it easy to customize the networking stack
  to fit the specific requirements of any P2P application.

- **Extensive transport configurability**: libp2p provides a set of specifications that can be adapted to support various
    [transport protocols](../transports/overview.md), allowing libp2p applications to operate in various runtime

>     and networking environments. This makes it possible to use libp2p in a variety of scenarios, regardless of
>     thanks to wealth of choices with regard to different transport protocols.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    and networking environments. This makes it possible to use libp2p in a variety of scenarios thanks to wealth of choices with regard to different transport protocols.
```

> applications for inspiration, but found few code implementations that were usable and adaptable.
> Many of the existing implementations had poor documentation, restrictive licensing, outdated code,
> no point of contact, were closed source, deprecated, lacked specifications, had unfriendly APIs,
> or were tightly coupled with specific use cases and not upgradeable. As a result, developers often
> had to reinvent the wheel each time they needed P2P protocols, rather than being able to reuse
> existing solutions.

{{< alert icon="" context="info">}}
libp2p was designed to address the limitations of traditional P2P networking approaches and these
existing network models, with the goal of enabling the distributed web.
{{< /alert >}}

## Why libp2p?

There are several reasons to consider using libp2p as a networking layer to create a robust P2P application:

- **Modularlity**: libp2p is designed to be modular, allowing developers to mix and match different components
  to meet the needs of their particular application. This makes it easy to customize the networking stack
  to fit the specific requirements of any P2P application.

>   - **Transport agnosticism**: libp2p provides a set of specifications that can be adapted to support various

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Extensive transport configurability**: libp2p provides a set of specifications that can be adapted to support various
```
I think this should not be categorized as transport agnostic, because that seems like the transport utilized is completely opaque to libp2p and the user. When in fact, configurability of different transports is the selling point.

Author: that's true!

    [transport protocols](../transports/overview.md), allowing libp2p applications to operate in various runtime

>     and networking environments. This makes it possible to use libp2p in a variety of scenarios, regardless of
>     the underlying transport protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    and networking environments. This makes it possible to use libp2p in a variety of scenarios, regardless of
    thanks to wealth of choices with regard to different transport protocols.
```

>   - **Versatility**: In addition to being transport agnostic, libp2p offers a range of discovery mechanisms,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Versatility**: In addition to supporting a wide range of transports, libp2p offers a range of discovery mechanisms,
```

    data storage and retrieval patterns, and is also
    [implemented in many programming languages](https://libp2p.io/implementations/), providing developers
    with great flexibility when building P2P applications.

- **Security**: libp2p includes [several security features](../security/security-considerations.md),
  such as peer identity verification using public key cryptography, [encrypted communication](../secure-comm/overview.md) between peers using modern cryptographic algorithms, and protection against network attacks through
  the use of [mitigation techniques](../security/dos-mitigation.md).

- **Robustness**: libp2p is a robust and reliable networking protocol that is designed to withstand stress,
  disturbance, and change. Its features and design choices ensure that it is able to function effectively
  and efficiently in a wide range of environments, and it is able to recover quickly from disruptions or

>   failures.

Reviewer: Can we combine these two and mention the DoS mitigations techniques as an example of robustness

>   - **Resiliency**: P2P networks are often more resilient than traditional client-server networks,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Resiliency**: P2P networks are often more resilient than traditional client-server networks,
```

    as there is no single point of failure. libp2p includes features such as
    [peer discovery](../discovery/overview.md) and [content routing](../routing/overview.md) that help
    to ensure that the network remains available and accessible even if some peers are offline or unreachable.

>   - **Efficiency**: P2P networks can be more efficient in resource utilization, as data is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Efficiency**: P2P networks can be more efficient in resource utilization, as data is
```

    distributed across multiple peers rather than stored on a central server. libp2p includes various storage
    and retrieval patterns that allow developers to distribute data efficiently across the network, making it
    possible to store and retrieve data in a cost-effective and scalable way.

>   - **Piercing NAT Barriers**: libp2p is equipped with capabilities for [NAT traversal](../nat/overview.md),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Piercing NAT Barriers**: libp2p is equipped with capabilities for [NAT traversal](../nat/overview.md),
```

    which allows P2P communication between peers even when they are behind NAT devices or firewalls. This
    helps to maintain the connectivity of the network and ensure that it remains accessible despite the
    presence of these obstacles.

>   - **Message Distribution and Dissemination**: One such pattern libp2p uses is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Message Distribution and Dissemination**: One such pattern libp2p uses is
```

    [publish/subscribe (pubsub)](../pubsub/overview.md), which allows a sender (publisher) to send a message
    to multiple recipients (subscribers) without the publisher having to know who the subscribers are.
    libp2p implements pubsub through the use of protocols like [gossipsub](../pubsub/gossipsub.md), providing
    developers with a flexible and efficient means of exchanging data and messages within their P2P
    applications.

> - **Interoperability**: libp2p is designed to be interoperable with different implementations and aims to
>   communicate with other P2P systems, allowing different libp2p-based applications to communicate
>   seamlessly. This helps to promote a healthy, interconnected ecosystem of P2P applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Interoperability**: libp2p implementations in different programming languages and libp2p releases across versions are designed to be interoperable with one another. This enables applications /from different language ecosystems to communicate
  seamlessly. This helps to promote a healthy, interconnected ecosystem of P2P applications.
```

purpose, with the primary stable implementation using the same
[Kademlia][wiki_kademlia]-based DHT as used in peer routing.

### Peer messaging

Sending messages to other peers is at the heart of most peer-to-peer systems,
and pubsub (short for publish/subscribe) is an instrumental pattern for sending
a message to groups of interested receivers.

libp2p defines a [pubsub specification][spec_pubsub] for sending messages to all
peers subscribed to a given "topic". The specification currently has two stable
implementations; `floodsub` uses a very simple but inefficient  "network flooding"
strategy, and [gossipsub](https://github.com/libp2p/specs/tree/master/pubsub/gossipsub)
defines an extensible gossip protocol.  There is also active development in progress on
[episub](https://github.com/libp2p/specs/blob/master/pubsub/gossipsub/episub.md), an
extended `gossipsub` that is optimized for single source multicast and scenarios with a
few fixed sources broadcasting to a large number of clients in a topic.

Head over to [What is libp2p?](/introduction/what-is-libp2p/) for an introduction
to the basics of libp2p and an overview of the problems it addresses.

> ## Related projects

Author: Yes

> Welcome to the libp2p documentation portal!

Author: Agreed. Also in favor of "Hub".

> libp2p, (short for "library peer-to-peer", always written in lowercase as "libp2p")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
libp2p, (short for "library peer-to-peer")
```
Not sure if we need to mention the stylization of libp2p here.

> P2P networks are decentralized networks in which participants communicate directly with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
P2P networks are decentralized, meaning participants communicate directly with
```

> authority controls the network, and all peers can communicate with one another
> directly. P2P networks do not require a privileged set of "servers" that behave differently

Reviewer: ```suggestion
authority controls the network.
P2P networks do not require a privileged set of "servers" that behave differently
```
already mentioned participants communicate directly two lines above.

> Instead, all peers in a P2P network are treated equally and can send and receive data
> to and from other peers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This sentence is saying the same thing again.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### About libp2p
```

> In the context of the internet, the [OSI model](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OSI_model) and the
> [TCP/IP model](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_protocol_suite) are conceptual models that provide
> a framework for understanding how networking protocols operate and interact. While these models offer
> a useful way to understand the functions and roles of different networking protocols, the actual
> implementations of networking protocols on the internet are often more complex and do not follow these
> models exactly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I dont understand this paragraph, why are we talking about the OSI and TCP/IP and limitations? Can we drop it

> {{< alert icon="" context="info">}}
> If we consider the TCP/IP model, for instance, the primary focus of libp2p is on the
> Transport layer and the Application layer. However, these conceptual models have shortcomings.
> For example, certain tasks may be unnecessarily repeated across multiple layers, leading to
> inefficiencies. Additionally, some information may be hidden between layers, which can hinder
> opportunities for improvement.
> {{< /alert >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I'm not sure what the intention of this paragraph is.  It mentions purported shortcomings but doesn't get specific or answer how they are addressed by libp2p

Author: Has been removed.

>   to fit the specific requirements of any P2P application. libp2p also supports
>   [stream multiplexing](../multiplex/overview.md), which allows multiple streams of data to be transmitted
>   over a single connection, improving efficiency and enabling more advanced communication patterns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  to fit the specific requirements of any P2P application.
```
Can we remove this sentence? I don't know why stream multiplexing is called out specifically in the section about modularity

> - **Security**: libp2p includes [several security features](../security/security-considerations.md), such

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **Security**: libp2p includes [several security features](../security/security-considerations.md), such
```

>   accessible even if some peers are offline or unreachable. libp2p is equipped with [NAT traversal](../nat/overview.md)
>   capabilities that allow P2P communication between peers even when they are behind NAT devices or firewalls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  accessible even if some peers are offline or unreachable.
```
I don't think we should mention NAT traversal in a section about resilient networks

Author: Updated to be presented on its own.
